protocol.txt

5. TFTP Packets

   TFTP supports five types of packets, all of which have been mentioned
   above:

          opcode  operation
            1     Read request (RRQ)
            2     Write request (WRQ)
            3     Data (DATA)
            4     Acknowledgment (ACK)
            5     Error (ERROR)


            2 bytes     string    1 byte     string   1 byte
            ------------------------------------------------
           | Opcode |  Filename  |   0  |    Mode    |   0  |
            ------------------------------------------------

                       Figure 5-1: RRQ/WRQ packet

The mode field contains the
   string "netascii", "octet", or "mail" (or any combination of upper
   and lower case, such as "NETASCII", NetAscii", etc.) in netascii
   indicating the three modes defined in the protocol.

Octet mode is used to transfer a file that is in the 8-bit
   format of the machine from which the file is being transferred.  It
   is assumed that each type of machine has a single 8-bit format that
   is more common, and that that format is chosen.  For example, on a
   DEC-20, a 36 bit machine, this is four 8-bit bytes to a word with
   four bits of breakage.  If a host receives a octet file and then
   returns it, the returned file must be identical to the original.

Any transfer begins with a request to read or write a file, which
   also serves to request a connection.  If the server grants the
   request, the connection is opened and the file is sent in fixed
   length blocks of 512 bytes.  Each data packet contains one block of
   data, and must be acknowledged by an acknowledgment packet before the
   next packet can be sent.  A data packet of less than 512 bytes
   signals termination of a transfer.  If a packet gets lost in the
   network, the intended recipient will timeout and may retransmit his
   last packet (which may be data or an acknowledgment), thus causing
   the sender of the lost packet to retransmit that lost packet.  The
   sender has to keep just one packet on hand for retransmission, since
   the lock step acknowledgment guarantees that all older packets have
   been received.

The entire packet (including opcode and byte number) is 512 bytes, not just the data field.
If the packet length is less than 512 bytes, the transmission is over.
What if the packet is greater than 512 bytes? Might be a transmission error?
